chore: document big integers (#4487)
noir-lang/noir: docs/docs/noir/standard_library/bigint.md

---
title: Big Integers
description: How to use big integers from Noir standard library
keywords:
  [
    Big Integer,
    Noir programming language,
    Noir libraries,
  ]
---

The BigInt module in the standard library exposes some class of integers which do not fit (well) into a Noir native field. It implements modulo arithmetic, modulo a 'big' prime number.

> Currently only 6 class of integers (i.e 'big' prime numbers) are available throughout the module, namely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::note

The module can currently be considered as `Field`s mimicked on a set of curves with corresponding set modulo sizes. [More work](https://github.com/noir-lang/noir/issues/510) is needed to achieve arbitrarily sized big integers.

:::

Currently 6 classes of integers (i.e 'big' prime numbers) are available in the module, namely:
```

Author: I am not fan of "mimicked on a set of curves". I'd rather say something like this:
`The module can currently be considered as `Field`s with modulo sizes used by a set of useful elliptic curves.`

Reviewer: 👍 Suggestion updated, see if that's better?

- BN254 Fq: Bn254Fq
- BN254 Fr: Bn254Fr
- Secp256k1 Fq: Secpk1Fq
- Secp256k1 Fr: Secpk1Fr
- Secp256r1 Fr: Secpr1Fr

> - Secp256r1 Fq: Secpr1Fq

Reviewer: Is there one that is recommended out of the six?

As in if I am a developer that knows nothing about curves and just want one big integer type to stuff things into, which one should I use?

Author: You should use the Noir native field.
These big integers are useful for implementing cryptographic primitives on other curves, so you should know about them if you want to use them.
I think what you ask for is u256

Reviewer: Oh maybe I'm misunderstanding things.

Is the intention of bigint here not necessarily to add an arbitrarily-sized integer type?

---
title: Big Integers
description: How to use big integers from Noir standard library
keywords:
  [
    Big Integer,
    Noir programming language,
    Noir libraries,
  ]
---

The BigInt module in the standard library exposes some class of integers which do not fit (well) into a Noir native field. It implements modulo arithmetic, modulo a 'big' prime number.

:::note

The module can currently be considered as `Field`s with fixed modulo sizes used by a set of elliptic curves, in addition to just the native curve. [More work](https://github.com/noir-lang/noir/issues/510) is needed to achieve arbitrarily sized big integers.

:::

Currently 6 classes of integers (i.e 'big' prime numbers) are available in the module, namely:

- BN254 Fq: Bn254Fq
- BN254 Fr: Bn254Fr
- Secp256k1 Fq: Secpk1Fq
- Secp256k1 Fr: Secpk1Fr
- Secp256r1 Fr: Secpr1Fr

> - Secp256r1 Fq: Secpr1Fq

Reviewer 2: See cspell warnings, let's just add these into the dict.

Author: Done

Where XXX Fq and XXX Fr denote respectively the order of the base and scalar field of the (usual) elliptic curve XXX.
For instance the big integer 'Secpk1Fq' in the standard library refers to integers modulo $2^{256}-2^{32}-977$.

Feel free to explore the source code for the other primes:

#include_code curve_order_base noir_stdlib/src/bigint.nr rust

## Example usage

A common use-case is when constructing a big integer from its bytes representation, and performing arithmetic operations on it:

```rust
use dep::std::{bigint::Secpk1Fq, println};

fn main() {
 let a = Secpk1Fq::from_le_bytes([x, y, 0, 45, 2]);
 let b = Secpk1Fq::from_le_bytes([y, x, 9]);
 let c = (a + b)*b/a;
 let d = c.to_le_bytes();
 println(d[0]);
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Can we put this into a snippet to enforce correctness?

Author: The println import is valid, I tried this before adding it in the doc, however I did not copy properly because I missed the parameters to main().

Reviewer 2: Ah, yeah it is valid. My mistake.
